CONTRIBUTING.rst, before:

**************************
Contributing to pytest-plt
**************************

``pytest-plt`` is an open source project developed by
`Applied Brain Research <https://appliedbrainresearch.com/>`__.
We welcome all contributions, whether they be
bug reports, feature requests, or code!

Filing issues
=============

If you find a bug in ``pytest-plt``,
or think that a certain feature is missing,
please consider
`filing an issue <https://github.com/nengo/pytest-plt/issues/new>`_!
Please search the currently open issues first
to see if your bug or feature request already exists.
If so, feel free to add a comment to the issue
so that we know that multiple people are affected.

Making pull requests
====================

If you want to fix a bug or add a feature,
we welcome pull requests.
Ensure that you fill out all sections of the pull request template,
deleting the comments as you go.
We check most aspects of code style automatically.
Please refer to our
`code style guide <https://www.nengo.ai/style.html>`_
for things that we check manually.

Commit message:

Use nengo-bones to generate support files

CONTRIBUTING.rst, after:

.. Automatically generated by nengo-bones, do not edit this file directly

**************************
Contributing to pytest-plt
**************************

Issues and pull requests are always welcome!
We appreciate help from the community to make pytest-plt better.

Filing issues
=============

If you find a bug in pytest-plt,
or think that a certain feature is missing,
please consider
`filing an issue <https://github.com/nengo/pytest-plt/issues>`_!
Please search the currently open issues first
to see if your bug or feature request already exists.
If so, feel free to add a comment to the issue
so that we know that multiple people are affected.

Making pull requests
====================

If you want to fix a bug or add a feature to pytest-plt,
we welcome pull requests.
Ensure that you fill out all sections of the pull request template,
deleting the comments as you go.
We check most aspects of code style automatically.
Please refer to our
`code style guide <https://www.nengo.ai/nengo-bones/style.html>`_
for things that we check manually.

Contributor agreement
=====================

We require that all contributions be covered under
our contributor assignment agreement. Please see
`the agreement <https://www.nengo.ai/caa/>`_
for instructions on how to sign.

More details
============

For more details on how to contribute to Nengo,
please see the `developer guide <https://www.nengo.ai/contributing/>`_.
